docs/features/overview.md, before:

# Feature Overview

A comprehensive look at everything MatchZy Auto Tournament can do.

---

## Tournament Management

### Bracket Generation

**Supported Formats:**

| Format             | Teams | Matches         | Description              |
| ------------------ | ----- | --------------- | ------------------------ |
| Single Elimination | 2-128 | ~N              | One loss = eliminated    |
| Double Elimination | 2-128 | ~2N             | Two losses = eliminated  |
| Round Robin        | 2-32  | N(N-1)/2        | Everyone plays everyone  |
| Swiss              | 4-64  | ~log₂(N) rounds | Similar records face off |

**Features:**

- ✅ Automatic bye handling for non-power-of-two team counts
- ✅ Smart seeding (random or manual)
- ✅ Walkover support (missing team advances opponent)
- ✅ Third-place match (optional)
- ✅ Bracket regeneration without losing tournament

### Tournament Lifecycle

**States:**

1. **Setup** → Configuring tournament and teams

   - Add teams
   - Select format and map pool
   - Can modify teams

2. **Ready** → Bracket generated, waiting to start
   - Bracket preview available
   - Can regenerate bracket
3. **In Progress** → Tournament active, matches running
   - Matches automatically progress
   - Real-time updates
4. **Completed** → All matches finished
   - Final results available
   - Demos ready for download

---

## Match System

### Match Statuses

**Pending** → Match created but tournament not started  
**Ready** → Tournament started, waiting for veto or server  
**Loaded** → On server, warmup mode, players connecting  
**Live** → Match in progress, rounds being played  
**Completed** → Winner determined, bracket updated

### Intelligent Match Status Messages

The system shows context-aware status messages:

| Status  | Condition              | Message                                        |
| ------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| Pending | Tournament not started | "Waiting for tournament to start..."           |
| Ready   | Veto not complete      | "Teams voting for maps..."                     |
| Ready   | Veto complete          | "Veto complete - Waiting for server..."        |
| Loaded  | 0 players              | "Server ready - Waiting for players (0/10)"    |
| Loaded  | Some players           | "Waiting for players (3/10)"                   |
| Loaded  | All players            | "All players connected - Waiting for ready up" |
| Live    | -                      | "Match in progress"                            |

---

## Real-Time Features

### WebSocket Events

**Frontend automatically updates when:**

- 🔄 Match status changes (pending → ready → loaded → live → completed)
- 🔄 Players connect/disconnect
- 🔄 Players ready/unready
- 🔄 Veto actions happen (ban, pick, side selection)
- 🔄 Tournament state changes (starts, completes)
- 🔄 Bracket updates (winners determined)

**No page refresh required!**

### Player Connection Tracking

Shows **live roster** of all 10 players with status:

- ✅ **Offline** — Player not connected (gray)
- ⚠️ **Connected** — Player joined, not ready (yellow)
- ✅ **Ready** — Player typed `.ready` (green)

**Tracked via events:**

- `player_connect` → Add to roster
- `player_disconnect` → Remove from roster
- `player_ready` → Mark as ready
- `player_unready` → Mark as not ready

---

## Server Management

### Auto Server Allocation

When tournament starts or veto completes:

1. System finds available servers (online + not in use)
2. Allocates server to match
3. Generates match config with teams and maps
4. Sends RCON: `matchzy_loadmatch_url "http://api/matches/{slug}.json"`
5. Configures webhook: `matchzy_remote_log_url "http://api/events/{slug}"`
6. Configures demo upload
7. Match goes to warmup

**All automatic!**

### Server Status Monitoring

- **RCON Heartbeat:** Periodic status checks
- **Match Tracking:** Which match is on which server
- **Auto-Config:** Webhook configured on status check
- **Health Indicators:** Online/offline status with colors

---

## Event Processing

### 25+ MatchZy Events Processed

**Player Events:**

- `player_connect`, `player_disconnect`
- `player_ready`, `player_unready`
- `player_death`, `round_mvp`

**Match Phase Events:**

- `series_start`, `series_end`
- `going_live`, `warmup_ended`
- `knife_round_started`, `knife_round_ended`
- `halftime_started`, `overtime_started`

**Round Events:**

- `round_started`, `round_end`
- `bomb_planted`, `bomb_defused`, `bomb_exploded`

**Pause Events:**

- `match_paused`, `unpause_requested`, `match_unpaused`

**Admin Events:**

- `side_swap`, `backup_loaded`

**All events:**

- ✅ Logged to console
- ✅ Stored in database (`match_events` table)
- ✅ Logged to files (`data/logs/events/`)
- ✅ Broadcast via WebSocket
- ✅ Trigger appropriate service updates

---

## Admin Controls

### Live Match Controls

**Available during warmup/live:**

- ▶️ Start match (force start)
- 🔄 Restart match
- ⏸️ Pause match (admin pause - players can't unpause)
- ▶️ Unpause match
- 💬 Broadcast message
- 🔄 Restore backup (specific round)
- 🗺️ Change map
- 🔀 Swap teams
- ⏭️ Skip veto
- 🔪 Toggle knife round
- ⏱️ Add time
- 🏁 End match
- 👥 **Add backup player** (new!)

### Backup Player System

**How it works:**

1. Admin opens match modal
2. Scrolls to "Add Backup Player"
3. Types player name in autocomplete search
4. Selects player from dropdown (shows all tournament players)
5. Chooses target team (Team 1 or Team 2)
6. Clicks "Add Player to Match"

**Backend sends RCON:**

```
get5_addplayer {steamId} {team} "{nickname}"
```

**Features:**

- ✅ Searches across all teams in tournament
- ✅ Filters out players already in match
- ✅ Shows player's original team
- ✅ Real-time autocomplete
- ✅ Requires player to reconnect after adding

---

## Demo Recording

### Automatic Demo Upload

MatchZy automatically uploads demos when matches complete:

**Backend endpoint:** `POST /api/demos/{matchSlug}/upload`

**Features:**

- ✅ Streaming upload (doesn't load entire file into memory)
- ✅ Match-specific folders (`demos/{matchSlug}/`)
- ✅ Original filename preserved
- ✅ Metadata from headers (map number, match ID)

### Demo Download

Admins can download demos from:

- Match Details modal
- Match History page
- API: `GET /api/demos/{matchSlug}/download`

---

## Team Experience

### Public Team Pages

**URL Format:** `/team/{team-id}/match`

**No login required** — teams access via shared link

**Features:**

- 🎮 Current match info (opponent, round, status)
- 🗺️ Map veto interface (BO1/BO3/BO5)
- 🖥️ Server connection details (IP, port, connect command)
- 📊 Live player status (who's connected, who's ready)
- 📈 Team statistics (wins, losses, win rate)
- 📜 Match history (past opponents and scores)
- 🔊 Sound notifications (customizable)

### Sound Notifications

**8 Available Sounds:**

- Notification (default)
- Alert
- Bell
- Chime
- Ding
- Ping
- Pop
- Success

**Controls:**

- 🔊 Volume slider
- 🔇 Mute toggle
- 🎵 Sound preview
- 💾 Persists per browser

**Plays when:** Match status changes to "loaded" or "live"

---

## Monitoring & Debugging

### Server Events Monitor

**Admin Tools → Server Events Monitor**

Shows **unfiltered stream** of all MatchZy events from all servers:

- ✅ Last 100 events buffered
- ✅ Real-time WebSocket updates
- ✅ Color-coded by event type
- ✅ Full JSON payload display
- ✅ Pause/resume streaming
- ✅ Server filter (optional)

**Perfect for debugging:**

- Verify events are being sent
- Check player Steam IDs
- Monitor match progression
- Identify configuration issues

### Event File Logging

All events logged to: `data/logs/events/{serverId}/{date}.log`

**Retention:** 30 days  
**Format:** JSON lines  
**Use case:** Historical analysis, debugging, recovery

---

## Maps & Map Pools

### Custom Map Management

**Features:**
- ✅ **Automatic map import** - Latest maps imported from GitHub on first start
- ✅ Add custom maps with Map ID and display name
- ✅ Upload map images or fetch from GitHub automatically
- ✅ Edit map details (display name, image)
- ✅ Delete unused maps

**Automatic Import:**
- Fetches maps from [CS2 Server Manager repository](https://github.com/sivert-io/cs2-server-manager/tree/master/map_thumbnails)
- Imports all `de_`, `cs_`, and `ar_` maps automatically
- Creates map pools by type (Defusal, Hostage, Arms Race)
- Runs on first start or when maps table is empty

### Map Pool System

**Create Reusable Pools:**
- ✅ Build custom map pools for different tournament types
- ✅ Active Duty pool (7 competitive maps) always available
- ✅ **Automatic pools** - Defusal only, Hostage only, and Arms Race only pools created automatically
- ✅ Select pools during tournament creation
- ✅ Save custom selections as new pools

**Tournament Integration:**
- Select from Active Duty, custom pools, or create custom selection
- System validates 7 maps required for veto formats (BO1/BO3/BO5)
- Map pools used in Round Robin/Swiss for rotation

> 📖 **[Managing Maps](../guides/managing-maps.md)** — Complete guide to maps and map pools

---

## Next Steps

- 🗺️ **[Managing Maps](../guides/managing-maps.md)** — Maps and map pools guide
- 🎮 **[Map Veto System](map-veto.md)** — Interactive pick/ban flow
- 📖 **[Running Matches](../guides/running-matches.md)** — Match management guide
- 🎯 **[First Tournament](../getting-started/first-tournament.md)** — Step-by-step tutorial

Commit message:

feat: improve server allocation and match status updates
- Enhanced documentation for server allocation process post-veto, detailing immediate attempts and fallback polling every 10 seconds if no servers are available.
- Updated status messages to reflect real-time updates for teams, including "WAITING FOR SERVER" and "WARMUP" statuses.
- Clarified match loading procedures and WebSocket notifications to ensure teams receive timely updates on server assignments and match readiness.

docs/features/overview.md, after:

# Feature Overview

A comprehensive look at everything MatchZy Auto Tournament can do.

---

## Tournament Management

### Bracket Generation

**Supported Formats:**

| Format             | Teams | Matches         | Description              |
| ------------------ | ----- | --------------- | ------------------------ |
| Single Elimination | 2-128 | ~N              | One loss = eliminated    |
| Double Elimination | 2-128 | ~2N             | Two losses = eliminated  |
| Round Robin        | 2-32  | N(N-1)/2        | Everyone plays everyone  |
| Swiss              | 4-64  | ~log₂(N) rounds | Similar records face off |

**Features:**

- ✅ Automatic bye handling for non-power-of-two team counts
- ✅ Smart seeding (random or manual)
- ✅ Walkover support (missing team advances opponent)
- ✅ Third-place match (optional)
- ✅ Bracket regeneration without losing tournament

### Tournament Lifecycle

**States:**

1. **Setup** → Configuring tournament and teams

   - Add teams
   - Select format and map pool
   - Can modify teams

2. **Ready** → Bracket generated, waiting to start
   - Bracket preview available
   - Can regenerate bracket
3. **In Progress** → Tournament active, matches running
   - Matches automatically progress
   - Real-time updates
4. **Completed** → All matches finished
   - Final results available
   - Demos ready for download

---

## Match System

### Match Statuses

**Pending** → Match created but tournament not started  
**Ready** → Tournament started, waiting for veto or server  
**Loaded** → On server, warmup mode, players connecting  
**Live** → Match in progress, rounds being played  
**Completed** → Winner determined, bracket updated

### Intelligent Match Status Messages

The system shows context-aware status messages:

| Status        | Condition                   | Message                                                                   |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Pending       | Tournament not started      | "Waiting for tournament to start..."                                      |
| Pending       | Veto not complete           | "VETO PENDING" / "Waiting for map veto to begin..."                       |
| Pending/Ready | Veto complete, no server    | "WAITING FOR SERVER" / "Veto complete - Waiting for server assignment..." |
| Ready         | Server assigned, not loaded | "READY"                                                                   |
| Loaded        | 0 players                   | "WARMUP" / "Server ready - Waiting for players (0/10)"                    |
| Loaded        | Some players                | "WARMUP" / "Waiting for players (3/10)"                                   |
| Loaded        | All players                 | "WARMUP" / "All players connected - Waiting for ready up"                 |
| Live          | -                           | "LIVE" / "Match in progress"                                              |

---

## Real-Time Features

### WebSocket Events

**Frontend automatically updates when:**

- 🔄 Match status changes (pending → ready → loaded → live → completed)
- 🔄 Players connect/disconnect
- 🔄 Players ready/unready
- 🔄 Veto actions happen (ban, pick, side selection)
- 🔄 Tournament state changes (starts, completes)
- 🔄 Bracket updates (winners determined)

**No page refresh required!**

### Player Connection Tracking

Shows **live roster** of all 10 players with status:

- ✅ **Offline** — Player not connected (gray)
- ⚠️ **Connected** — Player joined, not ready (yellow)
- ✅ **Ready** — Player typed `.ready` (green)

**Tracked via events:**

- `player_connect` → Add to roster
- `player_disconnect` → Remove from roster
- `player_ready` → Mark as ready
- `player_unready` → Mark as not ready

---

## Server Management

### Auto Server Allocation

When tournament starts or veto completes:

1. System attempts to find available servers (online + not in use)
2. **If server available:** Allocates immediately
3. **If no server available:** Backend polls every 10 seconds for available servers
4. Allocates server to match when found
5. Generates match config with teams and maps
6. Sends RCON: `matchzy_loadmatch_url "http://api/matches/{slug}.json"`
7. Configures webhook: `matchzy_remote_log_url "http://api/events/{slug}"`
8. Configures demo upload
9. Match goes to warmup
10. Updates sent via WebSocket — teams see server info automatically

!!! tip "Waiting for Server"
If all servers are busy, matches show "WAITING FOR SERVER" status. The system automatically checks every 10 seconds and assigns servers as they become available. No manual intervention needed!

**All automatic!**

### Server Status Monitoring

- **RCON Heartbeat:** Periodic status checks
- **Match Tracking:** Which match is on which server
- **Auto-Config:** Webhook configured on status check
- **Health Indicators:** Online/offline status with colors

---

## Event Processing

### 25+ MatchZy Events Processed

**Player Events:**

- `player_connect`, `player_disconnect`
- `player_ready`, `player_unready`
- `player_death`, `round_mvp`

**Match Phase Events:**

- `series_start`, `series_end`
- `going_live`, `warmup_ended`
- `knife_round_started`, `knife_round_ended`
- `halftime_started`, `overtime_started`

**Round Events:**

- `round_started`, `round_end`
- `bomb_planted`, `bomb_defused`, `bomb_exploded`

**Pause Events:**

- `match_paused`, `unpause_requested`, `match_unpaused`

**Admin Events:**

- `side_swap`, `backup_loaded`

**All events:**

- ✅ Logged to console
- ✅ Stored in database (`match_events` table)
- ✅ Logged to files (`data/logs/events/`)
- ✅ Broadcast via WebSocket
- ✅ Trigger appropriate service updates

---

## Admin Controls

### Live Match Controls

**Available during warmup/live:**

- ▶️ Start match (force start)
- 🔄 Restart match
- ⏸️ Pause match (admin pause - players can't unpause)
- ▶️ Unpause match
- 💬 Broadcast message
- 🔄 Restore backup (specific round)
- 🗺️ Change map
- 🔀 Swap teams
- ⏭️ Skip veto
- 🔪 Toggle knife round
- ⏱️ Add time
- 🏁 End match
- 👥 **Add backup player** (new!)

### Backup Player System

**How it works:**

1. Admin opens match modal
2. Scrolls to "Add Backup Player"
3. Types player name in autocomplete search
4. Selects player from dropdown (shows all tournament players)
5. Chooses target team (Team 1 or Team 2)
6. Clicks "Add Player to Match"

**Backend sends RCON:**

```
get5_addplayer {steamId} {team} "{nickname}"
```

**Features:**

- ✅ Searches across all teams in tournament
- ✅ Filters out players already in match
- ✅ Shows player's original team
- ✅ Real-time autocomplete
- ✅ Requires player to reconnect after adding

---

## Demo Recording

### Automatic Demo Upload

MatchZy automatically uploads demos when matches complete:

**Backend endpoint:** `POST /api/demos/{matchSlug}/upload`

**Features:**

- ✅ Streaming upload (doesn't load entire file into memory)
- ✅ Match-specific folders (`demos/{matchSlug}/`)
- ✅ Original filename preserved
- ✅ Metadata from headers (map number, match ID)

### Demo Download

Admins can download demos from:

- Match Details modal
- Match History page
- API: `GET /api/demos/{matchSlug}/download`

---

## Team Experience

### Public Team Pages

**URL Format:** `/team/{team-id}/match`

**No login required** — teams access via shared link

**Features:**

- 🎮 Current match info (opponent, round, status)
- 🗺️ Map veto interface (BO1/BO3/BO5)
- 🖥️ Server connection details (IP, port, connect command)
- 📊 Live player status (who's connected, who's ready)
- 📈 Team statistics (wins, losses, win rate)
- 📜 Match history (past opponents and scores)
- 🔊 Sound notifications (customizable)

### Sound Notifications

**8 Available Sounds:**

- Notification (default)
- Alert
- Bell
- Chime
- Ding
- Ping
- Pop
- Success

**Controls:**

- 🔊 Volume slider
- 🔇 Mute toggle
- 🎵 Sound preview
- 💾 Persists per browser

**Plays when:** Match status changes to "loaded" or "live"

---

## Monitoring & Debugging

### Server Events Monitor

**Admin Tools → Server Events Monitor**

Shows **unfiltered stream** of all MatchZy events from all servers:

- ✅ Last 100 events buffered
- ✅ Real-time WebSocket updates
- ✅ Color-coded by event type
- ✅ Full JSON payload display
- ✅ Pause/resume streaming
- ✅ Server filter (optional)

**Perfect for debugging:**

- Verify events are being sent
- Check player Steam IDs
- Monitor match progression
- Identify configuration issues

### Event File Logging

All events logged to: `data/logs/events/{serverId}/{date}.log`

**Retention:** 30 days  
**Format:** JSON lines  
**Use case:** Historical analysis, debugging, recovery

---

## Maps & Map Pools

### Custom Map Management

**Features:**

- ✅ **Automatic map import** - Latest maps imported from GitHub on first start
- ✅ Add custom maps with Map ID and display name
- ✅ Upload map images or fetch from GitHub automatically
- ✅ Edit map details (display name, image)
- ✅ Delete unused maps

**Automatic Import:**

- Fetches maps from [CS2 Server Manager repository](https://github.com/sivert-io/cs2-server-manager/tree/master/map_thumbnails)
- Imports all `de_`, `cs_`, and `ar_` maps automatically
- Creates map pools by type (Defusal, Hostage, Arms Race)
- Runs on first start or when maps table is empty

### Map Pool System

**Create Reusable Pools:**

- ✅ Build custom map pools for different tournament types
- ✅ Active Duty pool (7 competitive maps) always available
- ✅ **Automatic pools** - Defusal only, Hostage only, and Arms Race only pools created automatically
- ✅ Select pools during tournament creation
- ✅ Save custom selections as new pools

**Tournament Integration:**

- Select from Active Duty, custom pools, or create custom selection
- System validates 7 maps required for veto formats (BO1/BO3/BO5)
- Map pools used in Round Robin/Swiss for rotation

> 📖 **[Managing Maps](../guides/managing-maps.md)** — Complete guide to maps and map pools

---

## Next Steps

- 🗺️ **[Managing Maps](../guides/managing-maps.md)** — Maps and map pools guide
- 🎮 **[Map Veto System](map-veto.md)** — Interactive pick/ban flow
- 📖 **[Running Matches](../guides/running-matches.md)** — Match management guide
- 🎯 **[First Tournament](../getting-started/first-tournament.md)** — Step-by-step tutorial
