docs/development/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to MatchZy Auto Tournament

Thank you for your interest in contributing! This project welcomes contributions from everyone.

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ or Bun
- Docker (optional, for full stack testing)
- A CS2 server with MatchZy plugin (for testing)

### Local Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament.git
cd matchzy-auto-tournament

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy environment file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

**Access:**

- Frontend: `http://localhost:5173`
- API: `http://localhost:3000`
- API Docs: `http://localhost:3000/api-docs`

## Project Structure

```
matchzy-auto-tournament/
├── src/                          # Backend (TypeScript + Express)
│   ├── config/                   # Database, Swagger setup
│   ├── middleware/               # Auth, validation
│   ├── routes/                   # API endpoints
│   ├── services/                 # Business logic
│   │   ├── bracketGenerators/    # Tournament bracket generation
│   │   ├── *BracketGenerator.ts  # Tournament type implementations
│   │   └── matchConfigBuilder.ts # Match configuration builder
│   ├── types/                    # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── utils/                    # Helper functions
├── client/                       # Frontend (React + Material UI)
│   └── src/
│       ├── components/           # Reusable React components
│       ├── pages/                # Page components
│       ├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│       ├── types/                # TypeScript types
│       └── brackets-viewer/      # Forked brackets-viewer.js bundle with MatchZy tweaks
├── docs/                         # Documentation (MkDocs)
│   ├── mkdocs.yml               # Docs configuration
│   └── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies for docs
├── docker/                       # Docker configuration
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Multi-stage build
│   ├── docker-compose.yml       # Production compose
│   ├── docker-compose.dev.yml   # Development compose
│   └── Caddyfile                # Reverse proxy config
└── scripts/                      # Utility scripts
    ├── release.sh               # Docker Hub release automation
    └── test-docker.sh           # Local Docker testing
```

## Code Guidelines

### Backend (TypeScript)

**File Naming:**

- Services: `camelCaseService.ts` (e.g., `tournamentService.ts`)
- Routes: `kebab-case.ts` (e.g., `team-match.ts`)
- Types: `*.types.ts` (e.g., `tournament.types.ts`)
- Utils: `camelCase.ts` (e.g., `matchProgression.ts`)

**Principles:**

- **DRY**: Don't Repeat Yourself - extract common logic
- **Separation of Concerns**: Routes handle HTTP, services contain business logic
- **Type Safety**: Use proper TypeScript types, avoid `any` and `unknown`
- **File Size**: Keep files under 400 lines - extract if too long

### Frontend (React + TypeScript)

**Component Structure:**

```typescript
// ComponentName.tsx
import { FC } from 'react';

interface ComponentNameProps {
  // Props here
}

export const ComponentName: FC<ComponentNameProps> = ({ prop1, prop2 }) => {
  // Component logic
  return (
    // JSX
  );
};
```

**Best Practices:**

- Use functional components with hooks
- Keep components focused and small
- Extract complex logic to custom hooks
- Use Material UI components consistently

### Code Style

- Use ESLint configuration (run `npm run lint`)
- Format with Prettier
- Use meaningful variable names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Write self-documenting code

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Tournament Type

See [Architecture Documentation](architecture.md#adding-new-tournament-types) for a complete guide on extending the bracket generation system.

### Adding a New API Endpoint

1. Create route handler in `src/routes/`
2. Add business logic to appropriate service in `src/services/`
3. Define types in `src/types/`
4. Add Swagger documentation (if applicable)
5. Update tests

### Adding New Socket Events

1. Define type in `src/types/socket.types.ts`
2. Add emitter in `src/services/socketService.ts`
3. Add listener in frontend `src/hooks/useWebSocket.ts`

??? example "Testing"

    ```bash
    # Run backend build (TypeScript compilation)
    npm run build

    # Run backend in development
    npm run dev

    # Build frontend
    npm run build:client

    # Build both
    npm run build:all
    ```

    **Manual Testing:**

    1. Start the development server
    2. Create a test tournament
    3. Test the full flow:
       - Team creation
       - Tournament creation
       - Bracket generation
       - Map veto
       - Match loading
       - Live scoring

## Pull Request Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Commit with clear messages**: `git commit -m "Add: new tournament type"`
5. **Push to your fork**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
6. **Open a Pull Request**

### PR Guidelines

- Describe what your PR does and why
- Reference any related issues
- Include screenshots for UI changes
- Ensure the build passes
- Keep PRs focused (one feature per PR)

## Commit Messages

Use clear, descriptive commit messages:

```
Add: Brief description of addition
Fix: Brief description of fix
Update: Brief description of change
Remove: Brief description of removal
Refactor: Brief description of refactor
```

Examples:

- `Add: Swiss tournament bracket generator`
- `Fix: Match not loading on server allocation`
- `Update: Improve veto UI responsiveness`

## Documentation

When adding features:

- Update relevant documentation in `docs/`
- Add code comments for complex logic
- Update API documentation (Swagger)
- Add examples where helpful

## Getting Help

- **Questions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament/discussions)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament/issues)
- **Architecture**: See [Architecture Documentation](architecture.md)

## Code of Conduct

Please be respectful and constructive. We're all here to build something awesome for the CS2 community! 🎮

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat: update Docker configuration and enhance development setup
- Added support for multi-architecture Docker images, automatically detecting and downloading the appropriate Caddy binary.
- Refactored Dockerfile to use Node.js for building with Yarn, improving dependency management.
- Introduced a comprehensive Docker test script to automate building, running, and testing the Docker container.
- Updated Caddyfile for improved API and WebSocket proxying.
- Enhanced documentation for Docker testing and quick start instructions.
- Added .prettierignore and .pnp.loader.mjs files for better project structure and configuration.

docs/development/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to MatchZy Auto Tournament

Thank you for your interest in contributing! This project welcomes contributions from everyone.

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- Docker (optional, for full stack testing)
- A CS2 server with MatchZy plugin (for testing)

### Local Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament.git
cd matchzy-auto-tournament

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy environment file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

**Access:**

- Frontend: `http://localhost:5173`
- API: `http://localhost:3000`
- API Docs: `http://localhost:3000/api-docs`

## Project Structure

```
matchzy-auto-tournament/
├── src/                          # Backend (TypeScript + Express)
│   ├── config/                   # Database, Swagger setup
│   ├── middleware/               # Auth, validation
│   ├── routes/                   # API endpoints
│   ├── services/                 # Business logic
│   │   ├── bracketGenerators/    # Tournament bracket generation
│   │   ├── *BracketGenerator.ts  # Tournament type implementations
│   │   └── matchConfigBuilder.ts # Match configuration builder
│   ├── types/                    # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── utils/                    # Helper functions
├── client/                       # Frontend (React + Material UI)
│   └── src/
│       ├── components/           # Reusable React components
│       ├── pages/                # Page components
│       ├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│       ├── types/                # TypeScript types
│       └── brackets-viewer/      # Forked brackets-viewer.js bundle with MatchZy tweaks
├── docs/                         # Documentation (MkDocs)
│   ├── mkdocs.yml               # Docs configuration
│   └── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies for docs
├── docker/                       # Docker configuration
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Multi-stage build
│   ├── docker-compose.yml       # Production compose
│   ├── docker-compose.dev.yml   # Development compose
│   └── Caddyfile                # Reverse proxy config
└── scripts/                      # Utility scripts
    ├── release.sh               # Docker Hub release automation
    └── test-docker.sh           # Local Docker testing
```

## Code Guidelines

### Backend (TypeScript)

**File Naming:**

- Services: `camelCaseService.ts` (e.g., `tournamentService.ts`)
- Routes: `kebab-case.ts` (e.g., `team-match.ts`)
- Types: `*.types.ts` (e.g., `tournament.types.ts`)
- Utils: `camelCase.ts` (e.g., `matchProgression.ts`)

**Principles:**

- **DRY**: Don't Repeat Yourself - extract common logic
- **Separation of Concerns**: Routes handle HTTP, services contain business logic
- **Type Safety**: Use proper TypeScript types, avoid `any` and `unknown`
- **File Size**: Keep files under 400 lines - extract if too long

### Frontend (React + TypeScript)

**Component Structure:**

```typescript
// ComponentName.tsx
import { FC } from 'react';

interface ComponentNameProps {
  // Props here
}

export const ComponentName: FC<ComponentNameProps> = ({ prop1, prop2 }) => {
  // Component logic
  return (
    // JSX
  );
};
```

**Best Practices:**

- Use functional components with hooks
- Keep components focused and small
- Extract complex logic to custom hooks
- Use Material UI components consistently

### Code Style

- Use ESLint configuration (run `npm run lint`)
- Format with Prettier
- Use meaningful variable names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Write self-documenting code

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Tournament Type

See [Architecture Documentation](architecture.md#adding-new-tournament-types) for a complete guide on extending the bracket generation system.

### Adding a New API Endpoint

1. Create route handler in `src/routes/`
2. Add business logic to appropriate service in `src/services/`
3. Define types in `src/types/`
4. Add Swagger documentation (if applicable)
5. Update tests

### Adding New Socket Events

1. Define type in `src/types/socket.types.ts`
2. Add emitter in `src/services/socketService.ts`
3. Add listener in frontend `src/hooks/useWebSocket.ts`

??? example "Testing"

    ```bash
    # Run backend build (TypeScript compilation)
    npm run build

    # Run backend in development
    npm run dev

    # Build frontend
    npm run build:client

    # Build both
    npm run build:all
    ```

    **Docker Testing:**

    Test the full Docker build and deployment:

    ```bash
    # Run comprehensive Docker test script
    bash scripts/test-docker.sh
    ```

    This script will:
    - Build the Docker image
    - Start the container with docker-compose
    - Verify all services are running (Caddy, Node backend)
    - Test health endpoints, frontend, and API
    - Clean up automatically

    **Manual Testing:**

    1. Start the development server
    2. Create a test tournament
    3. Test the full flow:
       - Team creation
       - Tournament creation
       - Bracket generation
       - Map veto
       - Match loading
       - Live scoring

## Pull Request Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Commit with clear messages**: `git commit -m "Add: new tournament type"`
5. **Push to your fork**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
6. **Open a Pull Request**

### PR Guidelines

- Describe what your PR does and why
- Reference any related issues
- Include screenshots for UI changes
- Ensure the build passes
- Keep PRs focused (one feature per PR)

## Commit Messages

Use clear, descriptive commit messages:

```
Add: Brief description of addition
Fix: Brief description of fix
Update: Brief description of change
Remove: Brief description of removal
Refactor: Brief description of refactor
```

Examples:

- `Add: Swiss tournament bracket generator`
- `Fix: Match not loading on server allocation`
- `Update: Improve veto UI responsiveness`

## Documentation

When adding features:

- Update relevant documentation in `docs/`
- Add code comments for complex logic
- Update API documentation (Swagger)
- Add examples where helpful

## Getting Help

- **Questions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament/discussions)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/sivert-io/matchzy-auto-tournament/issues)
- **Architecture**: See [Architecture Documentation](architecture.md)

## Code of Conduct

Please be respectful and constructive. We're all here to build something awesome for the CS2 community! 🎮

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.
