docs/guides/managing-teams.md, before:

# Managing Teams

## Adding Teams

### Single Team

1. Go to **Teams** page
2. Click **"Create Team"**
3. Fill in:
   - Team Name
   - Team Tag (2-8 characters)
   - Logo URL (optional)
4. Add players:
   - Steam ID or vanity URL
   - Player name
   - Minimum 5 players required
5. Click **"Create Team"**

??? example "Advanced: Bulk Import (JSON)"

    For multiple teams, use JSON import:

    ```json
    {
      "teams": [
        {
          "name": "Team Pinger",
          "tag": "PING",
          "players": [
            { "steamId": "76561199486434142", "name": "Simpert" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432109", "name": "Player2" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432108", "name": "Player3" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432107", "name": "Player4" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432106", "name": "Player5" }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

## Team Pages

Each team gets a public URL:

```
https://your-domain.com/team/team-pinger
```

Share this with teams - no authentication needed. They can:

- View upcoming matches
- Participate in map veto
- See live scores
- Get server connection info
- Monitor player connections

## Managing Players

### Adding Players

- Edit team → Add Player
- Enter Steam ID (Steam64, Steam32, or vanity URL)
- Steam API key in `.env` enables vanity URL resolution

### Backup Players (Mid-Match)

If a player can't connect during a match:

1. Open match details
2. **Player Management** → Add Backup Player
3. Search for player
4. Select team
5. System executes `css_add_player` via RCON

## Replacing Teams

If a team withdraws mid-tournament:

1. Find replacement team
2. Click **"Replace in Tournament"**
3. Select team to replace
4. Bracket updates automatically

??? warning "Common Issues"

    **Player can't connect: "Auth rejected"**

    - Verify Steam ID is correct
    - Add as backup player via admin controls
    - Check `get5_check_auths true` is set

    **Team not appearing in tournament creation**

    - Ensure team has at least 5 players
    - Refresh page
    - Check team wasn't deleted

Commit message:

feat: add settings page for webhook URL and Steam API key configuration
- Introduced a new Settings page to allow users to configure the webhook URL and Steam API key directly from the application.
- Updated onboarding checklist to include webhook URL configuration status.
- Enhanced various components to reflect changes in settings, including alerts for unconfigured webhook URLs.
- Refactored related services and routes to support settings management and retrieval.
- Updated documentation to guide users on configuring settings post-installation.

docs/guides/managing-teams.md, after:

# Managing Teams

## Adding Teams

### Single Team

1. Go to **Teams** page
2. Click **"Create Team"**
3. Fill in:
   - Team Name
   - Team Tag (2-8 characters)
   - Logo URL (optional)
4. Add players:
   - Steam ID or vanity URL
   - Player name
   - Minimum 5 players required
5. Click **"Create Team"**

??? example "Advanced: Bulk Import (JSON)"

    For multiple teams, use JSON import:

    ```json
    {
      "teams": [
        {
          "name": "Team Pinger",
          "tag": "PING",
          "players": [
            { "steamId": "76561199486434142", "name": "Simpert" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432109", "name": "Player2" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432108", "name": "Player3" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432107", "name": "Player4" },
            { "steamId": "76561198765432106", "name": "Player5" }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

## Team Pages

Each team gets a public URL:

```
https://your-domain.com/team/team-pinger
```

Share this with teams - no authentication needed. They can:

- View upcoming matches
- Participate in map veto
- See live scores
- Get server connection info
- Monitor player connections

## Managing Players

### Adding Players

- Edit team → Add Player
- Enter Steam ID (Steam64, Steam32, or vanity URL)
- Configure a Steam API key in the dashboard **Settings** to enable vanity URL resolution

### Backup Players (Mid-Match)

If a player can't connect during a match:

1. Open match details
2. **Player Management** → Add Backup Player
3. Search for player
4. Select team
5. System executes `css_add_player` via RCON

## Replacing Teams

If a team withdraws mid-tournament:

1. Find replacement team
2. Click **"Replace in Tournament"**
3. Select team to replace
4. Bracket updates automatically

??? warning "Common Issues"

    **Player can't connect: "Auth rejected"**

    - Verify Steam ID is correct
    - Add as backup player via admin controls
    - Check `get5_check_auths true` is set

    **Team not appearing in tournament creation**

    - Ensure team has at least 5 players
    - Refresh page
    - Check team wasn't deleted
